Al Han was in Rafa and Southern Gaza I
want to ask you about the reaction to
this proposal by Israel that it might
carry out an attack on Rafa in a moment
but just first of all talk us through
the latest attacks that have been
happening
there yes we're looking just a little
over 24 hours at at least 40
Palestinians the vast majority of them
happen to be displaced families have
been uh in inside residential homes or
tents or evacuation centers across ra
City in central ra City the northern
part and the eastern part of the city
overcrowded densely populated areas full
of Palestinians who've been displaced
from the northern part and Gaza City
more attacks on residential homes but
the latest of what seems to be for a lot
of people here is an attack on civil
order is the systematic intentional
targeting of police departments and
police personnels here so far we're
looking at three separate attacks on
police personnels including the director
of the investigative departments here in
addition to the director of the police
department at later hours uh yesterday
in the morning three people were killed
in a car the western part of rafah City
that's the director of the investigative
Department along with his two of his
assistants at at earlier later hours at
about late afternoon hours another three
uh police Personnel were inside their
car in one of the uh in the central area
of rafah city were targeted and killed a
lot of people reacting this this is the
beginning of this uh operations in Rafa
City and they look at it as a way the
Israeli military is following just to
cause some sort of civil disorder civil
collapse in the city it's important to
point out this the police department
here ra C have been working uh very hard
to secure the delivery of of trucks
humanitarian trucks been trying to uh
cause some sort of stability inside
Healthcare facilities and in front of
food distribution points and such an
attack is only an indication that we
aree of some sort of of civil collapse
within the coming days if it continues
uh to happen in earlier hours today
ongoing artillery Shilling of the
eastern part of the city and it's just
important to point out that ra hasn't
been largely safe for Palestinians not
for the local residents who live in ra
but also for half of the population of
the G who became displaced and forced as
ordered by the Israeli military to come
to RAF City a lot of people who got to
the city and the initial weeks of the
war were killed within just a short
period of time of their arrivals or or
Sheltering inside the residential homes
or in the evacuation zones at the
western part of the C
um hany let's just move to the uh the
backdrop to all of this which is the
announcement that uh Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
instructed the military to put together
a plan for an offensive on Rafa and also
to put together a plan to evacuate Rafa
how are people reacting to
that very frustrated and in fact there
isn't a lot of trust going on here
because they have this terrible
experience with Israeli evacuation
orders since the beginning of the war
people who were told to evacuate the
northern part and Gaza City were giving
these sharp orders to the central area
to Han unisan here in Rafa City because
they were specifically told in order to
avoid being bombed they had to go to
certain designated zones by the military
but within a short period of time of
their arrival they were bombed and they
were killed so it just for the most part
these evacuation orders have been very
confusing contradictory and misleading
and there isn't much to trust going on
with the Israeli narrative so far it's
all based
on allegations that not that not
supported by substantial evidence
whatsoever almost everything the
military has said what we see on the
ground is quite the contrary and that's
why people here are not only frustrated
but also do not have any other opt
options at all the the options available
are either equivalent to none or very
very limited we're talking about a
southern part of the border of the city
it's the Egyptian Gaza border which
people hoping are not going to be forced
to cross to the Egyptian side because
this will only feed into a permanent
displacement there is no way whatsoever
they will be able to get back and to
going back to the northern part through
this Corridor passage not only they are
not safe and it hasn't been guaranteed
that they're going to be safe but they
also talking about going back to a
wasteland entire northern part and
Central area that have been turned into
a pile of ruins and a largely A
Wasteland with no services with no Civic
institutions whatsoever to the point it
is it is becoming uninhabitable by
creating difficult conditions on the
ground to make it unlivable h thank you
very much indeed Han Mahmud talking to
us from Rafa in Sou
gin